# Grouprise 3.2.0

Release date: *2021-04-19*

## Changes for users

### Improved search

* Groups (based on their name or description) can now be found via the site search.
* Partial search terms now also yield results (e.g. *groupri* leads to *grouprise*).


### Notifications

* Users may now disable all email-based notifications in their account settings.
* Disabled notifications (per group for an account) are now respected even for
  threads, if the account participates.


## Changes for administrators


### Mail processing

* The management command `processincomingmessage` is superseded by the new
  command `import_mail_message`.
* The configuration setting `MAILBOX_DELIVERED_TO_EMAIL` is superseded by the
  setting `COLLECTOR_MAILBOX_ADDRESS` (for `import_mail_message`).
* Retrieval of mails from an IMAP server is not supported anymore.
  The LMTP server provided by *grouprise* is the preferred alternative (with
  proper handling of CC and BCC addresses).

See [mail setup](../mail_setup) for details.


### Cron jobs

All previously required cron jobs (`update_scores`, `update_index` and
`import`feeds`) were migrated to *huey* tasks.  Thus these actions are now
executed periodically by the *grouprise* service process (`run_huey`).
Cron jobs are not required anymore.


### Huey storage (Redis / SQLite)

Previously the *huey* worker process used a local [Redis](https://redis.io/)
server for storing its data.
Since the huey worker is only rarely used, the storage was switched to a
local SQLite database file by default in order to simplify deployment.
The previous configuration can be kept by adding the following configuration
directives to the *grouprise* settings file:
```python
try:
    HUEY
except NameError:
    HUEY = {}
HUEY['huey_class'] = 'huey.RedisHuey'
```


### Upload filesize

The default upload filesize limit is now 10 MB (before: 0).
