# Grouprise 3.3.0

Release date: *2021-05-19*

## Changes for users

### Instant messaging (chat)

Instant messaging (chat) is now supported via Matrix.

Each group automatically gains two *rooms* (public and private).
New published content is announced in these rooms.
Rooms can be freely created by users.
The matrix service is fully federated, thus it is possible to communicate with other Matrix users
outside of the grouprise instance.
Every user is free to configure an existing (external) Matrix user ID - otherwise a Matrix user ID
is created within the grouprise instance.

The instant messaging support needs to be enabled by the administrators of the grouprise instance.


### Registration captcha

* A trivial (math-based and local) captcha needs to be solved during account registration.


## Changes for administrators

### Translations

* A few strings used in *grouprise* are now translatable (via gettext).  The emitted language
  depends on the default language configured in the user's browser.  A mixed-language visualization
  can be expected for users with English configured as the default browser language.


### Hook scripts

* It is now possible to react on certain events (for now: new group created) via a custom hook
  script (see `HOOK_SCRIPT_PATHS`).


## Instant messaging (chat)

Administrators may choose to enable the Matrix integration of grouprise.
All relevant requirements (e.g. a running matrix-synapse instance and an element-web frontend) are
comfortably configured via provided deb packages.
See the [matrix-chat documentation](/matrix_chat) for details.
