# Grouprise 5.5.0

Release date: *2024-??-??*


## Tags

Handling tags has been made easier with a new tag input component.
Additionally, platforms can specify suggested tags and even enforce the use of one
or more of these tags for users to select from.

We have introduced two new config options for this:

```yaml
tags:
    featured_tag_ids: [3, 18, 19]
    min_featured_group_tag_count: 1
```

In this example tags with the ID 3, 18 and 19 are suggested to users of which they have to select one.
The tag id order is meaningful, so that you are able to control in which order the tags are displayed
to the user.

## Map

The built-in map component now requires an explicit intent for the default scroll action
(zoom on desktops, pan on mobile). This is done by requiring the user to hold a key on desktop
computers or using two fingers on mobile.

## POI Map

The display area of the optional POI map can now be restricted to the points displayed on the map
with the new `restrict_view` keyword argument.
This is helpful if you want to keep users focused on a specific area or help them not to get lost.
Additionally, you are able to pad the display area to allow a little panning-leeway.

Example:
```
{% include 'geo/poi.html' with api_loader_query='group' height='500px' restrict_view='points?pad=0.15&disableForPopups=true' %}
```

## Pagination

Almost every view paginated lists with 10 items per page. We have increased this to 12 as it allows designers
to display item grids based on 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 column-based layouts.

## Calendar & Events

The list of events is now more prominently featured. It has been moved from the calendar to a separate
block on the start page. Additionally, the list of upcoming events is the first thing people
on devices with small screens (like smartphones) will see.

## Template customizations

A lot of templates have been reworked to include more `{% block ... %}` statements so that admins can easily
extend and override specific parts.

Additionally, we have added a few template gimmicks:
* Images now have a `square_500` attribute that exposes a square 500px pre-rendering.
* A new template tag called `named_cycle` has been introduced that allows you to cycle through values
  and retains its last iteration state even if used in a different context.
